---
layout: post
title: "For Some Time Now"
date: 2015-01-26 23:08:55 +0000
comments: true
categories:
---
I have been using GNU/Linux on-and-off for quiet some time now. My
first experience was using PPC editions of SuSE on my iBook back in
the early 2000s and later Mandrake on my beat-up PC. But I never
really got into using for my default go-to operating system. Plus
coming from a DOS background made using UNIX a little bewildering. A
lot has changed since then.

I have had dual-boot Linux/Windows systems for a long time now, but it
has only been more recently that I switch to using GNU/Linux as my
day-to-day system. *With the exception of a month where I switch to
solely using linux while I was writing a chapter of my PhD thesis,
however I found I was using a Windows virtual machine far too much and
switched back.* One of the main reasons for my conversion to
GNU/Linux, this time around, was the implantation of statistical
programming language **R** during my first post-doc job at the University
of St Andrews. The many aim was to make circular plots and circular
statistics, without having to use a clunky third-party plugin for
Excel. But the ability to identically batch process data and making
beautiful graphics really sold it for me. However, since then I have
been more included to use MATLAB, although not perfect, it is a more
complete solution and allows for user-interfaces.

At present, I am using a mix between Xubuntu (on my home desktop),
Linux-Mint (office desktop) and Arch-Linux (laptop/chromebook), all
using the sleek xfce graphical environment. Arch-Linux has been my
most recent discovery, although not for the faint hearted or the UNIX
reluctant, it is my current distribution of choice. When first
installed it is just a bare-bone terminal, from which to build on to
get to a complete usable system. It can, and did for me, take a entire
weekends work to get an installed and fully functional system. Which
has really force me to delve into UNIX/Linux to a much greater extent
that I would have done otherwise. But it has provided me a neat system
with just the elements, and that suits me just fine. Plus it is
something that you have lovely crafted and customised which only add
to it charm.
